Running Examples Of Silver Lining Apps
======================================

This lists running examples of apps that other people can clone, look
at, and even deploy if they want.  If you have another example, email
me or do a pull request on patch to `this document
<http://bitbucket.org/ianb/silverlining/src/tip/docs/examples.txt>`_.

Neighborly
----------

`Neighborly <http://pages.e-democracy.org/Neighborly>`_ is a
(currently very minimal) Django/GeoDjango application.  It has fairly
complete `installation instructions
<http://github.com/ianb/neighborly/blob/master/INSTALL.txt>`_ and a
fairly complete `build script
<http://github.com/ianb/neighborly/blob/master/boot.sh>`__.

Interactive Somerville
----------------------

`This <http://interactivesomerville.org/>`__ is a
Django/GeoDjango/Pinax application to collect community feedback on a
proposed extension to the Boston Greenline.  You might want to look at
the `source <http://bitbucket.org/geraldmc/frank-src/src/>`_ or the
`build script
<http://bitbucket.org/geraldmc/frank-src/src/tip/build-fs-layout>`__.

bbdocs
------

`This <http://bitbucket.org/ianb/bbdocs/>`__ is a very small
application (just plain WebOb without a framework) for getting commit
events from `bitbucket <http://bitbucket.org>`_ and using that to
regenerate documentation or other files.  It's what builds
http://cloudsilverlining.org and the `zip files
<http://cloudsilverlining.org/zip/>`_.

PylonsHQ
--------

The `Pylons <http://pylonshq.com/>`_ site runs on Siler Lining,
including Trac instances.  Ben Bangert `described what he did
<http://be.groovie.org/post/321827504/deploying-python-web-apps-with-toppcloud>`_.
I don't believe the actual code is in a public repository right now.
